---
layout: post
title: 'Voting tomorrow'
---

We've got the local councillor and the European Parliament elections here tomorrow.  I'll be honest and say I'm thinking of voting UKIP.  Taking their stated aims at face value and remembering all politicians lie is the key to my decision-making process.  I'm all for saving the money currently used to prop up the economies of new entrants to Europe and helping Britain first.

Incidentally... No, not incidentally, call me a racist and we'll have an argument.

Mine this time will be a protest vote.  It doesn't matter if you consider UKIP to be a bunch of racist, sexist, lying, self-serving scumbags, the alternatives here are just not palatable - and all parties have their rebels.  A few elections ago, when seemingly every voter and their dog catapulted green issues into the spotlight, I was one of those idealistic box crossers.  It seemed to make a difference then, so why not now?

Aside from that aberration I've been a lifelong Liberal/Liberal Democrat party voter, even member for a couple of years.  Disillusion is now the order of the day, centred on their inability to organise any presence at all in this voting district despite my previous attempts at engagement - my time utterly wasted.

After this year's count and another failure, I WAS considering sending an email to the local LibDems party leader, to twist the 'I told you so' knife... but that just wouldn't be fair.  Blogging and talking about it at my ADN account are.

After the debacle of the last Labour governments' repeated waste and stealthy destruction of our safe financial future; the Conservatives' unholy alliance with the LibDems and their accelerated destruction of our safe financial future, and the futility of voting Green this time around, what's left?

To be fair the 2 local Conservative councillors are nice guys, approachable, and they regularly turn out for local events.  A part of our community.  But voting for 'em?  No.

Oh, and my perception of the Green Party is that they're trying to save the planet.  An admirable thing to do even in the face of vested interest, but...  We've already had 3 identical leaflets of theirs delivered.  My emailed observations that they were wasting our precious resources but were at least doing better than the LibDems was returned to me as undeliverable.

So, back on track, to where this started, a UKIP protest vote?

What the hell am I protesting ABOUT - why this stream-of-consciousness claptrap?!

Something. Dunno.
