---
layout: post
title Voted
---

Yesterday, before work, I voted.  In the greatest of British traditions I was able to make small talk with one of the sitting councillors (not up for re-election) and wished his candidate every success in the polls.  Not that I was voting for the party. That was the easy bit - the area demographic made the result a foregone conclusion.

The hardest bit was getting into the building - the Entrance arrow confusingly pointing to a glass panel next to the door.  I asked, a few other people had already commented on it, but none had actually suggested that it be moved!  See, politics and the processes around politics aren't always boring!

More small talk later, my attempts at ingratiating myself with everyone there complete, I left for work.

In the early hours of Friday morning the local result was announced.  I care nothing for the national or European picture, for this year mine was a protest vote - see the day before yesterday's post for more on this.

The area's Conservative (incumbent party) candidate won handsomely.  UKIP came second, Labour third, the Liberal Democrats a far-away fourth.

Oddly given the 2012 election result, a new low for the party, the Liberal Democrats actually managed to increase the number of votes cast.  By 3!  This despite their candidate's failure to electioneer, the total lack of leaflets distributed on his behalf and despite me giving my vote to someone else.  People are, it seems, creatures of habit.

Why am I writing about this if it's not that important?

Dunno.
