---
layout: post
title: 50p
---

One of my colleagues bought a drink from the drinks machine earlier today.  Unremarkable.  Another guy's chance remark got me thinking about money.  Literally.

(Odd units follow - 100 pence per Great British Pound throughout.)

He'd put a 50 pence coin into the coin slot.  A 2011 coin with boxing gloves on the reverse.  Not related to some outlandish English masturbatory competition, no; 'twas a reference to the 2012 London Olympics.  London England.

Another colleague wondered if the thing might be worth 'something' - something more than face value.

It was.  Probably still is.

I took a moment to look at eBay for current starting prices and bids.

Used examples of similar coins start at 99 pence - nearly twice face value - and head northwards, topping out at around 8 times face value.  Add 100 to 250 pence postage and packing and we're at 4 to 13 times face value.  OK there'll be eBay fees and the actual cost of postage to deduct, but sellers are still ahead.

Hmmm…

Digging a bit deeper, there's some with bids over 400 pence; and for mint, collectors items, there are some over 2000 pence, with equally outlandish postage charges.

Wow.

My youngest daughter has a money  tin/can.  It's cylindrical, has a slot in the top and a pretty design running around it and, and… a rather unfortunate design flaw.  I can't check what's inside without a tin/can opener.

Destructive.

The thing I took away from this is simple: the guy had ANOTHER 50p in his pocket.  It's a different world in our lifestyles-of-the-rich-and-famous bendy wire department!
