---
layout: post
title: Between
---

It would be fair to say that I'm between social networks.  I don't mean I'm not participating, no.  I mean that I'm inhabiting the void between those I used to be active in.  Ok, ok, I'm bouncing about in either the Venn diagram voids or the overlaps between services.  Or both.

It's an odd sensation.

So, my past:

* MSN Chat, from early 1997 until autumn 1998 was my entry point into online chat.  It was easy.  I fell into the What's Cooking Online (WCOL) room entirely by accident and stayed there for a while,
* Facebook appeared in my life around 2008.  It's still there,  though you wouldn't know I'd been around since then were you to look at my 'Friends' list. They're pretty-much all people I know, see?
* btinternet.chatter grabbed me in 1998 as a BT phone customer with the related btinternet ISP, once I'd spread my wings away from the cosy MSN.  Though it was shut down some time ago, I occasionally attempt to keep in touch with the lovely people who inhabited it.  Closure notwithstanding it's been around 11 years since I was last active there anyway,
* Twitter, we all know about Twitter; it was my *home* from 2010 until…
* I discovered App.net, early in April 2013.  A great community, lovely people, an ad-free and owner-meddling-free environment; I can't *quite* figure out why I'm not there right now…
* 10Centuries.org *is* where I 'am' right now though, more of a dipper than prolific.  Great people (a number\* from ADN) and a comfortable, spam and ad-free environment.  The network, as I'm sure you've heard me say, is in an invite-only phase right now.  I have some.  

Well ok, I *do* know why I'm not active.  I've spent more time programming/developing/attempting to fix and evolve my 10C client - and avoiding talking about it online - than being 'social'.  Weird.


---

\*100%.
