---
layout: post
title: '2016'
---

Heading into the festive season most people would assume the worst of 2016 would be over by now.

It just got worse.*

It's been getting worse for some time, but…

There's one thing** that would lead me to believe there is hope for a brighter future: that the US President would attend Fidel Castro's funeral.  Officially.  Sure it'd upset a metric shedload of closed-minded morons, but for the rest of us…

I'm not talking here about an indicator or a signal, I'm not inclined to use the weasel words politicians use when they cannot bring themselves to explicitly state a POSITION.  I'd like Barack Obama simply to state he's going to pay respects to another head of state.

We've been given only hope that lots of things will be brighter soon, we'll be more prosperous soon, enjoy greater safety in SO many areas… soon. Or eventually.  And yet the political classes simply cannot state HOW.

So let's have the classy, though outgoing, President of the greatest country on the planet*** send an actual message to the future.  No, he'd be better sending it to the present.

The message is a simple one: it's not about them and us, it's about us.

I for one want something rational, easily-explained, to be included in a process (even if it's to be spoon-fed an outline of the plans affecting my future, and something that can't be taken back, something that isn't vague promises or populist soundbites. 

It seems though that 2017 isn't going to bring us stability, to benefit 'normal' people.

So, @POTUS, how's about a trip to Cuba?

What other indicators do we have that this modern age of enlightenment is NOT about to end?

---

*And, do you know, the year is not over yet, not by a long way.

**If you're interested I do have more than one thing.

***Hmmm… even self-proclaimed isn't right any more, the current message is about making it great AGAIN, implying it isn't now.  What a sad admission.
