---
layout: post
title: Autism
---

As a parent of a lovely girl diagnosed as being on the autistic spectrum, and being pretty sure I'm somewhere on it myself I've yet another moan coming up.

If you read my blog regularly enough you'll understand a little about me.  It's not all bad, right?

National (insert something here) day, week or month usually means the USA have picked a day and ascribed special meaning to it.

Fantastic.  Really.  We need more awareness of (insert something here)!

Sarcasm has no place here, and youll be glad to know I'm being deadly sincere.  Or at least 'ordinary' sincere.

Sincere.

National Autism Awareness Week just ended here in the UK.  Its UK organisers, the [National Autistic Society](http://autism.org.uk/) organised, or suggested lots of fun things for individuals, groups of people and especially schools to do during the week.

Schools.

Ah.

My 2 girls, including the one whose classmates would benefit from a better understanding of her condition (supportive as they already are) have been on Easter holiday for the past 2 weeks.  I know for a fact that a local authority on the other side of Manchester is starting it's second week off tomorrow.

Oops!

If we can organise Mothers Day and Fathers Day to a differing schedule to that in the USA, *surely* we can do the same to help raise awareness in our young.

Onesie Wednesday would have been nice to participate in, *if we'd known about it.*

I've got past the feelings of guilt by the way, for letting down my girls, the oldest in particular; I can't be expected to know *everything*, right? 
