---
layout: post
title: Engineer
---

A small number of us wear similar sweaters for work - similar in that they're self-coloured and pleasantly form-fitting.  Ok, in my case it's because they've shrunk in the wash... (but that's the subject of a previous, uncomfortable-for-me, blog entry here.)

Yesterday a slightly awkward exchange occurred by the coffee machine, one which I felt an urge to follow up by email.  I'd had a brilliant idea - a Eureka moment (but without the nudity and attendant spillages.)  Here's the brief exchange:

> "As an engineer I’m bound by a code of professional conduct to suggest a solution to the jumper hue issue; a daily palette based on the colours of the rainbow.  In ascending frequency order, and by day.
> 
> Unfortunately though, my purple one today falls outside the rigid boundaries of the, it must be said, unfortunately limited scheme.  Your flagrant Thursday jumper today merits a red card I’m afraid, though I’m sure you could carry the visible spectrum off better than I were you to try harder.
> 
> I’d better start work on version 2.0.
> 
> Baz."

The reply came a little later.  I'd *honestly* not expected one.

> "Hi Barrie,
> 
> Thank you so much for your email.  Well, what can I say?  I’m disappointed with myself that I have got off to a bad start on the first day of the week, but I do feel that I need to correct you on something.  Your jumper hue is not purple.  I do believe it’s a wine/beetroot shade, but definitely not purple.  
> 
> Whilst I appreciate and do accept the card, I can’t accept a red one.  Red is just not my colour.  I don’t do red and that’s that.  Red is not good for us gingers, I’m afraid and as I am too bound by a professional code of conduct as a ginger, you will simply have to come up with another colour. 
> 
> I eagerly await your palette…
> 
> Have a nice day,"

Me, speechless, though not apoplectically-so:

> "*Baz stills sense of outrage, <strike>stands</strike> sits corrected, starts work on v2.0.1*"

The conciliatory response came an agonising-for-me 50 minutes later:

> "I must say that the beetroot/wine colour does suit you though.  A warm colour for these Wintery times.  I would even go as far to say that it’s perhaps a burgundy.  There’s not many who can carry such a shade off."

Awesome.  And, with that, order in my universe was restored.

Which was nice.
