---
layout: post
title: Plumbers
---

3 plumbers were asked to quote for work - to replace 2 radiators.  Here's a mercifully shortened tale of woe…

Dear Plumbers, how difficult can it be to:

1. Visit when someone asks for a quotation?
1. When a potential customer is visited, to prepare a quotation, estimate, *something*, in a reasonable time, i.e. not simply disappear?
1. Do a good job when you get the work?  And that's the key here; we got a crap 'un…

He changed the radiators, that much is true.  The rest though, naah,' twas a bit crap.

* Rescheduled twice, from times that suited us to times that emphatically did not,
* Flexible plastic piping to join up to the rigid copper stuff,
* The cut ends from the copper pipes left by the side of the bed for me to stand on,
* He obviously hadn't doors at home; Ruby dog got out, he'd left the front door open as far as it could possibly go.  Twice,
* Left the packaging materials for *us* to clear away,
* The hall carpet is *soaked*,
* Black gunk left in the bedroom carpet and outside, he mustn't have put a sheet down - or used the packaging materials,
* Didn't bleed the air out of the system before he left,
* When he returned to get heat into our home he spent more time telling me we had a crap system, that our new boiler wasn't working, that…

The worst bit though, when he told me he was on a course in London today & tomorrow.  My wife mentioned afterwards that he'd spoken on his phone (loudspeaker of course) with a woman just around the corner about a job he was doing there today.

During his followup call later, after I'd got rid of him, he let me know that I could ring him today and if we were having problems he could look on Thursday.  The thing is, consistency is all in attempting to spread positive feedback about a business.  To tell me "I'm not being evasive" when telling me why he couldn't make it today; sorry mate, I'll be looking for tradesman review sites now.

So I spent time bleeding the system until it just worked.

2am.

Today for lunch I went around to the café and bought a spam & egg butty and blueberry muffin, and sat at my desk to eat them.

Feeling *much* better now.
