---
layout: post
title: 'FFS (sweary)'
---

I'm not sorry if the language in this post offends.  I cannot get past a (probably primitive) *need* to use it.  I know it's wrong and anti-social, and yet releasing the pressure cooker valve of crude and vulgar language will help *me* come to terms with it.  So, here goes.

An acquaintance turned to me today and, totally out of the blue, said this (I'm paraphrasing a little):

> "Today's a special day for *them*, they commit atrocities on it."

There was no preamble, nothing I'd said that would indicate how receptive I'd be to the statement.

"Eh?", I replied, then headed to Google, partially to block out thoughts of axes and sweeping majestically across the Steppe, laying waste to…

It turns out today marks the beginning of Ramadan.  So I told him so.  "You mean Ramadan."

Doubling down is usual, and he didn't disappoint this time.  Well actually he *did*:

> "No, no, sometime soon there's a special day where they commit atrocities, it's part of their religion."

"No it isn't. No it is *not*," I had to reply before shutting the conversation off.

Should I have asked him for proof?

Should I have attempted to *educate* him?

For fuck's sake, we're not living in The Dark Ages; we're not living in a time during which, if we didn't understand something, it automatically had to be excluded from the community, or maimed, or killed.  Or made the subject of a decades-long feud.  Or a bleedin' Crusade!  Now we *are* living in a time of information overload, of that there can be no doubt, but it's so bloody *easy* to use Google to *check*, that even a child could do it.  But I guess the twat who so casually opened the conversation with religious intolerance (he's also a racist) has lost a child's ability to *wonder* about things, and would rather remain ignorant.

For some perspective, a headline on my favourite web site:

["24 Coptic Christians killed in Minya, Egypt in what authorities are calling the largest attack on the community since last month".](https://m.fark.com/comments/9604160?from_page=main)  It's now at least 28 deaths and, added to the 44 from just last month, adds a teeny tiny sense of perspective.  

But for a *real* sense of perspective, there's this site:

[http://www.iamsyria.org/death-tolls.html](http://www.iamsyria.org/death-tolls.html)

The word 'stark' doesn't even come *close* to my thoughts on the disparity between this week's Manchester death toll and what's going on in Syria and all the *other* conflict-torn countries.

We really *do not* know how lucky we are.
