---
layout: post
title: Telnet
---

Today, a day of nerdy firsts: I had my first-ever Telnet session, and very tentatively started to play in my first-ever MUD.  Bear in mind I've been on the Internet since March 1997; that's twenty years!  It's interesting to note that both Telnet and the MUD precede *my* arrival in the slow lane of the Information Superhighway.

But first, these snippets from Wikipedia:

> "**Telnet** is a protocol used on the Internet or local area networks to provide a bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication facility using a virtual terminal connection."

…and:

> "A **MUD** (originally Multi-User Dungeon, with later variants Multi-User Dimension and Multi-User Domain), is a multiplayer real-time virtual world, usually text-based. MUDs combine elements of role-playing games, hack and slash, player versus player, interactive fiction, and online chat."

Telnet, first mentioned in [RFC#15 in 1969,](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc15) is almost as old as I, predating the World Wide Web by an easy twenty years!  The Colossal Cave Adventure first appeared in 1975, is itself no spring chicken!

Me: I played a few text-only adventure games starting in the early 1980s, but all were stand-alone single-user relying purely on the imagination of the programmer(s) and the user (me!)  My all-time favourites: The Hobbit, The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy, and Zork (a game I never finished.)

You may have seen the game I ran with @mlv in an App.net thread, a flavour of which is available through [the transcript here.](http://bazbt3.github.io/theadventure/)  A very enjoyable, diverting few months.

So there it is.  Thanks very much indeed to @papierzeit on  the pnut.io network for posting your server details and allowing *me* to have a go!  I'll be back.

Sharing imaginations, it's amazing!
