---
layout: post
title: Imperial
---

For years I looked at Cussons Imperial Leather soap as being nothing special.  Through my childhood I had little exposure to it (not soap!) and always *wondered* why it appealed to so many.  I thought 'how *could* so many be taken in by the ads or its long history or…

During December my wife brought some home, a six-pack on special offer (of course) and when my previous, moisturising, bar became too small to handle comfortably whilst attempting to wake up, and to avoid the newly-present danger of it escaping my grasp and exiting via the washbasin plughole, I opened the pack.

What a revelation!  It has a distinctive aroma, of course it has, but unlike anything else I'd experienced when my parents and I shared bars, or visiting someone else's home.

So I sat and pondered for a while.  Insularity, navel-gazing, easily bests following the news any day, and especially the latter days of the year just ended.  But I digress…

*Now* I understand this soap's appeal!  It's mine, untainted (too strong?) by *other* peoples' lack of handwashing skills, disparate fragrances, and of course inability to empty the water and soap scum from *their* soap dishes.  In short, no-one washes with it but I.

And, while the fragrance remains on me, I smell almost human.  Yes!

But how?  Well, here's the thing.  No-one else's sweat, sebaceous oil, flakes of dead skin, faeces, earwax, nasal mucus, *none* of it touches *my* precious bar of soap.

Its a rubbish moisturiser for faces though, my newly-scaly forehead is testament to that!  Perhaps it's as well one of my Christmas presents is a moisturising cream.  Now I'm definitely on the lookout for an Imperial Leather face soap.

Cussons Original Imperial Leather hand soap thus gets  Baz's seal of approval and, new for 2017, a rating of 9/10 for its intended purpose.
