---
layout: post
title: Cinema
---

Ordinary visits to the cinema of course provoke my tears, but not today's.  The frankly inconsiderate, moronic behaviour of the phone users around me provoked me into doing something I'm not proud of, something terrible.

The woman in the row in front of us, when she wasn't talking with her children, surreptitiously turning on her phone, nearly-but-not hiding it with her hair and…

A teenager down the aisle was, I'm certain, recording large sections of the film, but the three selfies *with flash* were the last straw.  So I got up, walked down the few a steps separating us, and ***told*** her to stop doing it and to turn the phone off.

The woman in front of us obviously saw it as a challenge so upped her game.  Got up, stood in front of me asking her daughter…

We'd been lucky so far in our visits; I *relish* the chance to take the girls out, but I can see how, antisocial as it is, why subscription movies services and channels have flourished.  Heck, my girls don't mind if I sit there in my underpants!

Well, ok, that last is a lie, sitting in my dressing gown is as bad as it gets.

Oh yes, the terrible thing.

I let my family down when, without retaining a sense of perspective, I swore at the teenager whilst ordering her about.

For what it's worth, I saw the majority of the film, and give it an *easy* 10/10 for the first 90 minutes before the distractions peaked.  The soundtrack is *amazing!* and almost certainly one to buy.  Baz's seal of approval.

Baz though?  Baz does not, emphatically not, get the same courtesy.

