---
layout: post
title: Pinboard
---

I've been messing about with computers since 1981, on the internet since 1997 (yes, even *that* is 20 years!) and so it was a surprise to find, by chance, a bookmarking service that made sense to me.  Tags: I know what they *are*, but the things never clicked until a week-and-a-half-ago.  I've used GTD (Getting Things Done) in various forms in a personal and to a lesser degree work capacity, but this is different.

[Pinboard.in](http://pinboard.in) has been around since, I think, 2009.  It has a mature, sensible interface; maybe one that takes a time to master, but it works well.  Apart from when it doesn't.

I signed up for an Archive account, one that costs a yearly fee of USD$25 and entitles the user to practically- unlimited, searchable, taggable bookmark storage.  The Archive account is an extension of the Basic and gives full text search within the pages the Pinboard system crawls then archives.  Sounds impressive.

I say 'sounds' as I've not yet had the opportunity to *test* the full-text bit.  It simply didn't work for me and another new signup.  After a week of no response to my 2 emails, several tweets, it emerged that Pinboard's hard drive was full.  Oops, what bad timing!

Ok, the support could *easily* have been better, but the site owner has generously offered a small extension for the trouble I've had.

The good news, I spent time checking that the bookmarks could be exported in non-proprietary formats and, crucially, reimported.  And I've spent time tagging like crazy.

And here are the fruits of my labours, a bit of a mess for now, but eminently *usable*:

[***https://pinboard.in/u:bazbt3***](https://pinboard.in/u:bazbt3)


