---
layout: post
title: Privacy
---

Another sign personal responsibility is a thing of the past, this one related to the ubiquity of the mobile phone.  It's an all-purpose privacy invader, child entertainer, burglar inviter, memory enhancer, space invader.  In short, it's contributing to the decline of civilised society.

A post on my favourite medium-traffic low-visibility social network pnut.io reminded me of the number of times the mobile *hasn't* been my friend.  The easiest way to do this is via the magic of a list.

A rant, actually.

* **Private meal, photos taken, in all likelihood shared on social media:** *(not mine this time)* Why *do* they think it's ok to do this?  A host and their home should be respected.  In a bar it's almost ok.  Why does no-one ask first anymore‽
* **The swimming baths changing room:** man with phone blocking the aisle between the cubicles  didn't take kindly to being asked to put it away, not even when the obvious sign he was stood next to was pointed out. No mobiles, no photography.
* **School sports days, Christmas plays:** Advance notice of no photography, yet parents insisting it's their right to do so are sneaky about it.
* **The cinema:** Yeah, looking at your full-brightness phone and taking selfies are simply antisocial; recording the movie would get you thrown out (though likely not prosecuted) if [the grumpy old bastard behind](http://bazbt3.10centuries.org/2017/02/05/cinema) is feeling vindictive.
* **Drivers:** Is it too difficult to wait until you can find a safe place to stop before answering or making that call.  It's been illegal to phone on the move for a while now, along with drinking anything, adjusting your stereo, and even picking your nose you dirty scrotum!  Heck, being in the phone driving down the residential streets where you live and your children play is idiotic.  Getting in your car after picking up your kids from school surely getting home *safely* is your highest priority.  After driving at my wife and children.
* **Walking along the street, crossing the road:** This *should* be obvious.  Cars are hard, very hard indeed.  Bouncing off mine might sting for a while, and though my elbow is less-likely to inflict permanent damage as I protect myself, my tongue is likely to be sharper than you realise.
* **It's lawful to take public photos of my daughters:** I won't like it much, especially if it looks as-if you're doing it covertly.  But I know it's your right to do so.  Making you feel uncomfortable by staring at you until you leave is *my* right.  One day I might even snap you.

Er…

I think it's time to have a go at composing part 6 of my Maker's Mark whiskey review series.  (Surprisingly catharsis none while writing the preceding necessarily-incomplete diatribe.)
